The Registrar of Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede, has said that it was untrue that the board was imposing candidates on universities for admission. Oloyede told journalists in Benin, Edo, during his visit to JAMB’s zonal office that the board had resolved all issues of admission into tertiary institutions after due consultation with all stakeholders. ‎ ‎ “I know many of you are bothered and you want to hear from me about the admission. There is no stalemate; after due consultation with the Senate, House of Representatives, because they were worried and invited us, the matter was totally resolved,” he said. He added that education and examination regulatory institutions “like NBTE, NCCE, NUC and JAMB itself, were also dully consulted”. According to him, there is no ambiguity on what will happen. “As it has been announced by the Minister Education, there will be no written examination, no written Post-UTME examination by any institution. “Apart from that, every other thing remains as it used to be, because the authority, autonomy and independence of the academic boards or the Senate of the respective institutions remain sacrosanct. “They should determine their criteria, following the directives of the Federal Executive Council to all Federal universities about what should be merit, catchment areas, educationally-disadvantaged states and other things. “Things remain the way they used to be. The only addition this year is, for now, there should be no written Post-UTME examination. “Every Senate and academic board should determine its own admission policy. “We must be fair to all; we must be federal in our attitude; we must be equitable in whatever we do. We must not extort the students. “We must not exploit the masses of this nation; every other thing remains; that is the position of JAMB,” Oloyede said. Pressed on the allegation of imposition of admission-seeking candidates on universities, he said, “I am telling you what the situation is today and that does not arise. “The admission should be conducted as directed by the academic boards of the Senate of every respective institution except that there should be no written Post-UTME examination. “The traditional guidelines as to spread in terms of merit, catchment area, educationally disadvantaged states for federal institutions remain so. “So, each proprietor at the state level and private level will determine the criteria and once that is done, you will ensure they are strictly followed. There should be no extortion of students. “There should be no imposition of students on the institutions and also, every institution should be equitable to all,” he clarified.