The organised labour in the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has described the recently sacked Managing Director of the agency, Habib Abdullahi as feudal lord who ruled over the agency with iron hands like an emperor. Speaking in Lagos, the President Senior Staff Association of Communication Transportation and Corporation (SSACTAC), Benson Adegbeyeni said Abdullahi  returned to the agency as a wounded lion who was not ready to listen to anyone. “ In his first time in office, Abdulahi was adamant but I believed in peace and he made lot of promises but he didn’t do and in the line of that, he was sacked and Ado Bayero was appointed and in the enriches of learning, he was pushed out by President Buhari Administration.”, he declared. Adegbeyeni said Ado Bayero approved promotion and welfare of staff but the board chairman, Chief Toby Anenih refused to approve Bayero’s recommendations. “And at that point, the FG brought Habib back and he came back as a wounded lion who did not listen to labour leaders that someone had an accident in the course of doing business that she had permanent disability, I went to him and he said he won’t do anything and he refused. ‘’ Habib was running NPA like he will not leave again but now it’s history and now we’re having Hadiza Bala Usman and under that situation. I forced Habib to promote people, so there are problems upon problem.” The Labour leader said moral of workers were down with the way the former Managing Director was running the agency. “The moral of staff are down, when there is no motivation when someone spent 10 year on a level, then what did you expect, people like me has spent 12 years on a level, then moral will go down, the 12 years should have fetched me four promotions and by now, I should be a GM in Nigeria Port Authority but that will not stop us from doing our job. ‘’A management staff is covering duty for eight years and covering duty was supposed to be six months and you confirm the person but a situation where you cover duty for eight years is absurd, you are not found wanting but the power that be said they cannot confirm you, then your moral will be down.