Can we meet you? My name is Jide Ogunsanya but my close friends like calling me “Ogbonge”.  I was born in Imosan-Ijebu and had my primary, secondary and tertiary education in Ogun State: Adeola Odutola Elementary School, Ijebu Ode; Ijebu Ode Grammar School, Ijebu-Ode and Olabisi Onabanjo University respectively. I studied Microbiology in OOU and served in Obosi, Anambra state 2008/2009 (First NYSC Batch C), where I was one of the beneficiaries of the Anambra State Award. I am a part time blogger and Netpreneur. I use the internet to make legal money from products I sell and online services. Do you have previous work experience prior to setting up your blog? No. I set up my blog, ogbongeblog.com in 2008 while I was working on my final year project at OOU. You have been blogging for quite a while, what did you hope to achieve when you set out? I set it up to share things I know and also provide solutions to problems I can solve. Back then, I read somewhere that one can become famous, make good contacts and probably make money by solving problems. So, I decided to follow that path and I keep thanking God for guiding me to this chosen path. Can you tell us a major challenge you faced and how you were able to surmount it? A major challenge was getting access to the internet. Back then, I have to be going to cyber cafe to blog, check mails etc. – and this wasn’t cheap back then at all. Most times, I have to go for all night browsing so I can have enough time to do things Ineeded to do. This was very risky then because of thieves and Yahoo boys/Police issues. There was a time armed robbers came to a cyber cafe I was browsing at Ago Iwoye and made away with my phone and money. I also lost my dad’s laptop to armed robbers at a cyber cafe in Ijebu Ode. On getting to Anambra State for my Youth Service, I met an hotel manager at a Cyber cafe and helped him configure his Nokia phone for browsing. He eventually invited me to his hotel and gave me free access to the hotel’s wifi. The free access in a comfortable environment where I didn’t have to worry about NEPA helped me alot in learning so many things and achieving a lot too. I was robbed at gunpoint one of those days I was returning from the hotel. The thieves went away with my bag containing my laptop. I stopped going to the hotel to browse. Few weeks after the incident, I bought a cheap old school HP laptop from a fellow Corper who agreed that I can pay him in instalments for two months. I also bought a used internet-ready Nokia phone which I was using to connect to the internet viaNokia PC Suite. So, after coming back home from the school where I served, I lock myself indoor blogging all day. With time, levels changed and I can’t even remember when last I went to a cyber cafe to browse. You seem capable toanswer almost all technology and ICT related issues, how did you get this knowledge? After my SSCE, I left Ijebu to stay with my cousins in Ibadan to prepare for my JAMB, TOEFL and SAT exams. There was this PC at home I used then. I bought “Professor Teaches” and other video tutorial CDS which really helped me in developing interest in ICT but not enough to convince me to study Computer Science instead of Medicine. I settled for MCB when I couldn’t get admission for Medicine. During my youth service, I decided to brush up my ICT skills, I enrolled in 6 months weekend programme at NIIT Onitsha. I enrolled in Java programming there and the programme exposed me to alot of things as regards ICT related issues. Even though I can’t call myself a Java programmer, I don’t regret attending NIIT.  The lecturers then were well motivated probably because we were the first set of students. Not sure if NIIT Onitsha would still be effective as then though. Many bloggers find it very difficult to monetize their blog/ sites, how do you think they can? Most find it difficult simply because they think blog monetization is all about Google Adsense. So, when such bloggers apply for Google Adsenseand get rejected, they think that’s the end. Hence, they abandon the blog for something else. If you own a blog, you can monetize it with Pay per click programs like Adsense, Addynamo, Media.net, chitika.com. Some of these programs even pay per thousand impressions, if no one clicks on their ads displayed on your blog – and there are many of them out there. A blogger can also make money via Affiliate programmes. Konga, Jumia and Dealdey are top sites that pay Nigerians in Naira for promoting their products. You simply earn money when someone you referred to those sites via your unique referral links, buys something on those sites. Recently, Konga even announced that a Nigerian Blogger have earned over N1 million from their affiliate program. There are also non-Nigerian Affiliate programs. For example; Amazon Affiliate Program that pays via cheques whichNigerian bloggers can easily cash at most Nigerian banks. Selling digital items likee-books, video tutorials are another way a Blogger can monetize a blog. Creating an e-book is just like typing an article in MsWord and using afree software like primoPDF to convert it to PDF. Creating an awesome cover for it isn’t a rocket science either. The interesting part is that it’s not necessary that you write an e-book by yourself before you can make money selling e-books. There are so many e-books out there whose authors will give you permission to resell. Just imagine how much you will be making if you sell e-books on “solutions to quick ejaculation” or “ways to catch a cheating partner” on a blog that writes on relationship topics. Many Nigerian entertainment bloggers write on this but most don’t know they can also monetize their blog this way. You can also use a blog to make money by using it to promote your services or that of others. Let’s assume you can create blogs, bake cakes, edit photos, promote businesses and so on then you must let your blog readers know you offer such services. Even if they are not the one to patronise you, they will be willing to refer their friends to you at any point in time. I even know some bloggers that tell their readers that they can design websites. When they get offers, they contact someone like me to get the job done, deliver the job and keep their own cut of the bargain. The possibilities of monetizing a blog are endless. The blogger just has to think out of the box. Looking back, what will you say was the turning point for you in life? My service year at Onitsha, being on my own with no more pocket money from my parents challenged me to get ready for the challenges ahead. At Onitsha, I discovered I can hustle and make it in life without a job. At NIIT, I was really inspired to use Technology to change lives. I also met some great people that have contributed to who I am today. Asides blogging, what else do you do? I sell bulk SMS at nairaforsms.com,create sites for businesses, train people on how to set up internet businesses. When I feel like having a break from the internet, I hang out with friends or just watch TV. What advice do you have for young people that will like to start up a blog? Be patient. You can’t make money overnight from Blogging. If you are smart, it won’t take long before you start earning from it though. Don’t rely only on one monetization model. Don’t just blog, explore and try other internet businesses. What advice do you have for entrepreneurs? Skill up, acquire different skills you can rely on for survival so you won’t be desperate for jobs that won’t pay much and won’t even allow you to grow. Do what you enjoy doing.