BY FUNSHO OLOJO The Comptroller-General, Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Hameed Ali, has attributed the slum in Customs revenue to the policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN) The Customs boss, who was addressing a Consultative Forum between Customs and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) at the Customs Training School, Ikeja, Lagos, disclosed that the service had a revenue shortfall of N230 billion in the last quarter of 2015. He attributeadding that the service has pleaded for sympathetic consideration by the CBN to review the policies. “Customs had also made progress in getting the necessary approval for clearance of a huge backlog of imports. “Imports in respect of which forms `M’ were opened before the commencement of the CBN foreign exchange restriction of some imported items. “Importers of such goods could not finalise Customs clearance due to inability to obtain the Pre-Arrival Assessment Report (PAAR). “Relief has come for such importers as we (Customs) have secured the go- ahead to waive the formalities and allow them to pay duty,” Ali said. He disclosed that the service had reorganised its Dispute Resolution Units and designated experienced Comptrollers to head the units for quick resolution of disputes. He said that all disputes arising from valuation and classification were now referred to the units for resolution. Ali said that the service had been receiving complaints about rates of duty and documentation processes which differed from one port to the other. He said that there was also the issue of different rates at different commands. He said emphasis would be on professionalisation of Customs’ jobs, saying that the vision of the NCS management was to build a pool of highly-skilled specialists. He said specialisation would be in core areas like Valuation, Classification, Rules of Origin, Excise, Enforcement, Customs IT and Investigation. Ali said that the activities of MAN could not be overemphasised, adding that collaboration with the Organised Private Sector like MAN would be an important pillar of Customs administration. “We will therefore appreciate your feedback on our performances and government policies. “We encourage MAN to express its concerns about policy formulation and implementation. “We assure you that under my watch, such contributions will form valuable inputs to our periodic reviews aimed at fine-tuning such policies for better result. “I started operations last year. I am aware of strategic importance of Zone “A” to customs’ overall operations “I will not remain the Comptroller-General of Abuja. I will be showing more presence in Lagos and the zones,” he said. Ali urged manufacturers who were having challenges in clearing their consignments before he assumed office to lodge their complaints genuinely so that customs would handle such complaints. He also advised members of MAN to inform the service earlier on issues concerning documentation before arrival of their consignments for quick clearance. Ali also urged manufacturers who sought refund of charges, which had accumulated on their duties in the last few years to be rest assured that it would be looked into. He said that the service had processed the refunds. Ali, however, urged members of MAN to assist the service on intelligence information gathering to reduce smuggling of products and encourage genuine importers and exporters. The President of MAN, Dr Udemba Jacobs, pledged to support Ali to enable him achieve the revenue target of one trillion naira set for the service. Jacobs also said that MAN would support Customs on intelligence information gathering, adding that the information would assist the service to achieve success. He urged the Customs chief to look into reviewing the 41 restricted items and to also address the challenge faced by manufacturers in obtaining Form `M’ and avoid paying demurrage. “Customs should also look into compliance with rules on importation of goods and should stop any importer not complying with cargo clearance procedures.