 Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, announces resignation .            His resignation is good riddance to bad rubbish — NFF Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, has announced a sensational resignation from the Super Eagles job via Twitter early on Friday morning. This comes less than 30 days before the Eagles play two crucial Africa Cup of Nations qualifying matches against Egypt. After having a running battle with the Nigeria Football Federation, critics, media and fans following the Super Eagles early elimination from the African Nations Championship last month, Oliseh went on a YouTube rant that divided the football community earlier in February. But no one expected him to throw in the towel and quit the job this early even though he looked to be unprepared for the big job following on his antecedents. However, Oliseh caught everyone by surprise as he announced via social media that he was leaving early Friday, a day after he spoke via video about his struggles as well as hopes for the team at a Social Media Week event in Lagos. “I feel fortunate, blessed and eternally grateful for having had the honour to Play,Captain & Coach this great Nation of ours,Nigeria,” Oliseh began his tweets. “Due to contract violations, lack of support, unpaid wages, benefits to my players, Asst. Coaches & myself, I resign as Super Eagles Chief Coach,” thus ended his brief spell in a turbulent Nigeria job. I feel fortunate, blessed and eternally grateful for having had the honour to Play,Captain & Coach this great Nation of ours, Nigeria.  — Sunday Oliseh (@SundayOOliseh) February 26, 2016   Due to Contract violations, lack of Support, Unpaid wages, Benefits to my players, Asst. Coaches & myself, I resign as Super Eagles Chief Coach  — Sunday Oliseh (@SundayOOliseh) February 26, 2016  In a letter the 41-year-old wrote to the NFF subsequently, he gave a few more details:  “Due to incessant Violations of our signed agreement (Contract) I am hereby informing you of my decision to terminate our working collaboration signed in July 2015.  “The most important objective is for the Super Eagles Of Nigeria to qualify to the next AFCON and the World Cup 2018.  “Since so little help is being rendered me in getting the players to give their best and very vital conditions and advantages to the team play are also being sacrificed coupled with non-redress of the aforementioned despite my several e-mails and others, seeking your aid to effectively carry out my duties were ignored.  “These unconducive working conditions that my coaching crew and myself have to live with, your contractual violations and the interest of the nation necessitates that I tender my resignation and recourse to the termination of our working agreement,” he concluded.  With top officials of the NFF attending the Fifa Elections in Zurich, it is not yet known who they will select as coach ahead of next month’s qualifiers.  Oliseh was a former captain of the Nigerian national team and won the 1994 Afcon as well as Olympic gold in 1996.  He was appointed replacement for Stephen Keshi in July 2015 despite not having coached a top team previously.  His resignation is good riddance to bad rubbish — NFF Meanwhile, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has responded to the sudden resignation of Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, describing the development as ‘good riddance to bad rubbish’. The spokesperson for the Federation, Ademola Olajire, said with Oliseh’s departure, the country would have to immediately empanel a new set of technical leadership for the national team. “Oliseh is gone and we have to move forward,” Olajire said in an interview in Abuja with the Nigeria Television Authority. “As far as we are concerned, it is good riddance to bad rubbish. He is not the kind of person we though he was. “He went on YouTube to abuse Nigerians. The Minister pleaded with the federation to allow him to remain in place for our next two matches. As you can see, he did not even wait for those matches.” Olajire said the NFF only heard of the resignation in the media as the coach was yet to send in any letter to that effect. The NFF spokesperson said he was in touch with the President of the NFF, Amaju Pinnick, and other top officials of the Federation, who are currently in Zurich for FIFA special congress. “I cannot tell you what exactly they will do, but I can tell you that we will empanel a new set of technical hands for the team. And whatever Oliseh has mishandled in his few months in charge, they will have to right.” Olajire faulted Oliseh’s claim that the NFF violated the terms of his contract, challenging the coach to publish details of those aspects of his contract that were breached. Coach Oliseh resigned on Friday, just over seven months after he was appointed. Oliseh, who announced his resignation on Twitter, said he took the decision due to the inability of the NFF to honour the terms of his contract. “Due to contract violations, lack of support, unpaid wages, benefits to my players, assistant coaches and myself, I resign as Super Eagles Chief Coach,” he tweeted. In a preceding tweet before announcing his resignation, Oliseh thanked Nigerians for the opportunity to serve as coach of the national team “I feel fortunate, blessed and eternally grateful for having the honour to play, captain and coach this great nation of ours, Nigeria.” Oliseh, whose appointment was made with much fanfare by the NFF, soon started having problems with the executives of the federation over remuneration, match tactics and results. His complaint about being owed was not well received by the NFF, which rather threatened to sanction him. He also had challenges managing the players. An altercation between the coach and the team’s former captain and the country’s most capped goalkeeper, Vincent Enyeama, led to the goalie’s premature resignation from the team last October. Apparently, the last straw for Oliseh was the woeful outing of the Super Eagles at the CHAN competition in Rwanda, where the team was eliminated in the first round. Following widespread criticisms that greeted the team’s elimination, a Youtube video soon surfaced in which Oliseh lambasted his critics, referring to them as “insane”. On Thursday, the NFF directed Oliseh to henceforth report to former coach and the federation’s technical director, Amodu Shuaibu.  Meanwhile, the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has responded to the sudden resignation of Super Eagles coach, Sunday Oliseh, describing the development as ‘good riddance to bad rubbish’. The spokesperson for the Federation, Ademola Olajire, said with Oliseh’s departure, the country would have to immediately empanel a new set of technical leadership for the national team. “Oliseh is gone and we have to move forward,” Olajire said in an interview in Abuja with the Nigeria Television Authority. “As far as we are concerned, it is good riddance to bad rubbish. He is not the kind of person we though he was. “He went on YouTube to abuse Nigerians. The Minister pleaded with the federation to allow him to remain in place for our next two matches. As you can see, he did not even wait for those matches.” Olajire said the NFF only heard of the resignation in the media as the coach was yet to send in any letter to that effect. The NFF spokesperson said he was in touch with the President of the NFF, Amaju Pinnick, and other top officials of the Federation, who are currently in Zurich for FIFA special congress. “I cannot tell you what exactly they will do, but I can tell you that we will empanel a new set of technical hands for the team. And whatever Oliseh has mishandled in his few months in charge, they will have to right.” Olajire faulted Oliseh’s claim that the NFF violated the terms of his contract, challenging the coach to publish details of those aspects of his contract that were breached. Coach Oliseh resigned on Friday, just over seven months after he was appointed. Oliseh, who announced his resignation on Twitter, said he took the decision due to the inability of the NFF to honour the terms of his contract. “Due to contract violations, lack of support, unpaid wages, benefits to my players, assistant coaches and myself, I resign as Super Eagles Chief Coach,” he tweeted. In a preceding tweet before announcing his resignation, Oliseh thanked Nigerians for the opportunity to serve as coach of the national team “I feel fortunate, blessed and eternally grateful for having the honour to play, captain and coach this great nation of ours, Nigeria.” Oliseh, whose appointment was made with much fanfare by the NFF, soon started having problems with the executives of the federation over remuneration, match tactics and results. His complaint about being owed was not well received by the NFF, which rather threatened to sanction him. He also had challenges managing the players. An altercation between the coach and the team’s former captain and the country’s most capped goalkeeper, Vincent Enyeama, led to the goalie’s premature resignation from the team last October. Apparently, the last straw for Oliseh was the woeful outing of the Super Eagles at the CHAN competition in Rwanda, where the team was eliminated in the first round. Following widespread criticisms that greeted the team’s elimination, a Youtube video soon surfaced in which Oliseh lambasted his critics, referring to them as “insane”. On Thursday, the NFF directed Oliseh to henceforth report to former coach and the federation’s technical director, Amodu Shuaibu.