The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State has debunked the claims by Bayelsa state Governor, Henry Seriake Dickson that the party is responsible for renewed violence and insecurity in the Niger Delta region, alleging that the governor is a known sponsor of violence and criminality. The party also alleged that Dickson has a suspicious relationship with the new militant group, the Niger Delta Avengers. According to the APC, preliminary investigations have shown that the claims of the State governor against the party are based on non-performance and a pocket of crimes caused by unpaid salaries. They said the utterances of Mr. Dickson are frivolous and meant to corroborate those made by his co-sponsors of criminality against the federal government. The APC, in a statement issued yesterday in Yenagoa via e-mail by the State Publicity Secretary, Panebi Fortune,‎ alleged that the governor and an ex-militant leader, Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, were the brains behind the rampaging nascent militant group, the Niger Delta Avengers. “The recent utterances by the State governor in relation to previous orders by Ekpemupolo, otherwise known as Tompolo, wherein both accused leaders of the APC in the State of being responsible for the spate of pipeline bombings, were a confirmation that both were working together,” the statement read in part. The statement said the levels of hunger, poverty, and underdevelopment in the State are “high and unacceptable,” and that these problems are exacerbated by the State’s non-payment of it workers’ salaries. “The result [of salary non-payment] has been despair and desperation that has created the current situation of insecurity in the State as various youths have resorted to other unsavory means of livelihood. “It is therefore laughable that Governor Dickson will level spurious allegations against APC leaders in Bayelsa State in order to divert the attention of the public, especially the suffering workers of Bayelsa State. We therefore appeal to the governor to live up to his responsibilities and pay workers their salaries rather than misleading Nigerians,” the statement read. Bayelsa State APC members added that the governor is in no position to blame them for the actions of the Niger Delta Avengers given his close relationship to the ex-militant, Tompolo. “Without looking elsewhere, it is clear that Governor Dickson and his creek compatriot, Tompolo, were the same as the infamous Niger Delta Avengers who have been terrorizing the nation’s economy.” Referring to Tompolo’s press release in which he denied involvement with the Niger Delta Avengers, the statement further read, “Dickson merely echoed what Tompolo had said two weeks ago in a widely circulated media publication. This is very unfortunate because we are aware of how Governor Dickson hosted a meeting of ex-militant leaders with Tompolo in attendance wherein they hatched this plot to return to the creeks if Jonathan did not win. “We are convinced that Tompolo cannot extricate himself from the Avengers. It is his gimmick to come out and deny the group and attack after hours of such denials. This style to arm-twist the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration will fail.